# Standalone-mhz14
A standalone CO<sub>2</sub> display based on Arduino and the MH-Z14 sensor.

# Why ABC is off in the Arduino sketch
Automatic Baseline Calibration is disabled, because ABC gives a false sense of accuracy. Let me explain:  take a room with people, the CO<sub>2</sub> will be elevated. Now if the (ventilated) room gets empty, CO<sub>2</sub> readings will decrease, with an asymptote at ~400 ppm. If this asymptote happens according to the sensor at let's say 500 ppm, you know the sensor is in need of calibration, because the outside is ~400 ppm (see satellite imagery of that [here](https://atmosphere.copernicus.eu/temperatures-wildfires-and-co2-copernicus-europes-eyes-earth-observes-year-extremes)).

The MH-Z14 sensor correlates infrared transmittance in air to a certain CO<sub>2</sub> value. Because both the offset and the slope of this relationship can shift with sensor aging, say by the LED getting dimmer, it's unclear if just removing a Y offset (which is how the sensor seems to do calibration, see [here](https://wolles-elektronikkiste.de/en/mh-z14-and-mh-z19-co2-sensors)) in our example, doing -100 to our reading of 500 to end up at 400 again) made things better. It might be that it wasn't the offset, but the slope that needed adjustment. Thus I think that it's better to leave readings uncalibrated, and look at the asymptote as a sanity check to see if the sensor is still 'good', because if it's ~400 in a well-ventilated room then both the slope and the offset must be correct.

When it does need calibration, a span (two point) calibration can be done with either test gases or a calibrated sensor.

# Graphs
The LCDGraph library is used for graphs, but the standard and cheap 16 character * 2 rows displays aren't very well suited to graphs, because of the grap between characters, and the 8 custom characters limit. A 128*64 OLED for a few dollars might be a better fit.

# Enclosure
Generated by an openSCAD file, credits go to [jbebel](https://github.com/jbebel/Ultimate-Box-Maker).
